NLNOG RING servers

MOTIVATION:

I've noticed that between there are a lot of friendly 'shell access' 
exchange deals between dutch network operators. This makes it easier for
parties to debug network issues and troubleshoot 'from the outside'. A
point of view outside your network is absolutely essential, seeing what
others see is a useful thing with a variety of network problems. Well known
examples are 'it works for even numbered ip address, but not for odd
numbered ip address via this and this route'. 

To encourage and provide a streamlined way of cooperating I introduce the
"NLNOG RING". In essence the deal is very simple: you donate a machine to
the ring, and you gain access on all servers which are part of the network,
hence the name "ring". 

A great example would be to launch a traceroute from 10 servers in diffent
networks and quickly get the results instead of waiting till somebody has
the time to run some tests for you. 

PARTICIPATION:

Participation is open to everybody who meets the following requirements: 
    - You a network operator
    - The organisation you work for has BGP routers connected to the
      "Default Free Zone" and maybe even dutch IXP's.
    - Your organisation has it's own ASN, IPv4 and IPv6 prefix(es). 
    - You have enable or configure rights on those routers. 
    - You are involved in the dutch networkers community.
    - You have permission from your organisation to become involved in the
      ring project. 

Currently roughly 10 organisations are participating, a full up to date
list is available in /participants.txt

MACHINE:

The following requirements are mandatory:
    - Clean ubuntu 10.04 LTS installation (no special packages are required
      except openssh-server)
    - 1 IPv4 address
    - 1 IPv6 address
    - You are willing to give full sudo access to the Ring-Admins
        (we will get to the security considerations later in this document)

The following suggestions are indicative:
    - 1 core or CPU
    - 20 gigabyte disk space
    - 512 megabyte RAM
    - 100mbit NIC
        (please decide for yourself what is appropiate, the machine will be
        a mere shell server managed by puppetclient)

DNS:

To prevent clutter and overhead in the ring.nlnog.net domain we request you
to make two DNS records pointing to the machine:
    - ring01.your-organisation.tld IN A $IP_address_of_the_machine
    - ring01.your-organisation.tld in AAAA $IPv6_address_of_the_machine
We will create a CNAME record such as 'your-organisation01.ring.nlnog.net'
pointing towards the records you created. If the subdomain 'ring01' is not 
available any other name will do, the main goal is to allow users to
renumber the machine they provisioned to the ring without notifying admins
or other users and keep management overhead low. 

MANAGEMENT:

All regular nodes (machines provided by organisations) are managed
through a centralized puppet system. Ring-Admins will take care of software
and security updates, installation and user management. The goal is to make
it as easy as possible for organisations to provide a machine and not worry
about it afterwards. 

Machine owners are allowed and encouraged to install software which they 
deem necessary to comply with the standards of their organisation, examples 
are: munin-node, n2, backup programs or a snmp daemon. 

ABUSE: 
    
    This project is based on mutual trust: you give me access I give you
    access. We hope this model is strong enough to be viable. Abuse of the
    resources provided by the NLNOG RING project is absolutly forbidden and
    we apply a 'zero tolerance' policy. This means that after one abuse
    incident you will be permantly banned from the project. Through
    extensive logging and limitating the rights users have on other
    people's systems we also hope to prevent abuse. For more information
    regarding the security of machines please see '/doc/security.txt'.

FURTHER READING: 

See /TODO and /FAQ for more information about the progress of the project

CONTACT: 

A non-exhaustive list of people involved in designing and managing the nlnog
ring project: Peter van Dijk, Teun Vink, Edwin Hermans, Martin Pels and me. 

If you have any questions please do not hesitate to contact me. 

Kind regards,

Job Snijders <job@snijders-it.nl>
http://snijders-it.nl/pgp/
http://snijders-it.nl/job-snijders-public-ssh-key.txt


